##Introduction:
Clustering is an unsupervised learning technique that can be used for grouping data points
according to similarities found on various features. In this assignment, two types of
unsupervised learning, K-Means and DBSCAN, would be implemented from scratch and would
be used for image segmentation, where each point on an image would be considered an
individual data point, and points that share similarities would be clustered together.
The implementations are generally applicable, they can be used with arbitrary vectors, not
necessarily images, and can handle arbitrary dimensions within the vector features. Moreover, it
was implemented such that the user can select one of three different distances: Euclidean,
Manhattan, or Maximum.
Commands:
##K-Means CLI Command:
python MainFile_Task1.py --algo kmeans --input giraffe.png --output out_kmean.png --k 4
--metric euclidean --resize 200
##DBSCAN CLI Command:
python MainFile_Task1.py --algo dbscan --input giraffe.png --output out_dbscan_eu2.png --eps
6 --min-samples 30 --metric euclidean --resize 200
##Experiment:
The performance of both algorithms was validated on an RGB image. In this case, each pixel
was represented as a feature vector with dimensions equal to 3. In a real-world scenario to
minimize computational complexity, image resizing takes place. Different distance
measurements were used to check their influence on image segmentation quality.
The output of K-Means resulted in a clean and smooth segment when an appropriate k value is
used.DBSCAN successfully located regions of high density colors and was immune to noisy
pixels but demanded precise control of eps and min samples.
##Result & Conclusion:
The experiments prove the efficiency of the implementation in terms of the successful
segmentation of the images according to the similarity of the colors. K-Means is an algorithm
that is simple, efficient, and effective when the number of clusters is given in advance. DBSCAN
is also an efficient algorithm, which can also compute the number of clusters as well as handle
the noisy points. Another important point is the choice of the appropriate distance measure
through the command line interface
